README.md, before:

# USHospitalCompare
Hospital analysis and comparison from U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

### Introduction
This project is a set of functions in R with the objective of performing analysis and comparisons between hospitals in the United States.

### Data  

The data come from the Hospital Compare web site (http://hospitalcompare.hhs.gov) run by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The purpose of the web site is to provide data and information about the quality of care at over 4,000 Medicare-certified hospitals in the U.S. This dataset es- sentially covers all major U.S. hospitals. This dataset is used for a variety of purposes, including determining whether hospitals should be fined for not providing high quality care to patients.

### Files 
- outcome-of-care-measures.csv: Contains information about 30-day mortality and readmission rates for heart attacks, heart failure, and pneumonia for over 4,000 hospitals.
- hospital-data.csv: Contains information about each hospital.
- Hospital_Revised_Flatfiles.pdf: Descriptions of the variables in each file (i.e the code book).
- best.R: Contains the function best(state, outcome)
- rankhospital.R: Contains the function rankhospital(state, outcome, rank)
- rankall.R: Contains the function rankall(outcome, rank)

### Functions

#### Finding the best hospital in a state
best(state, outcome)

Function called best take two arguments: the 2-character abbreviated name of a state and an outcome name. The function reads the outcome-of-care-measures.csv file and returns a character vector with the name of the hospital that has the best (i.e. lowest) 30-day mortality for the specified outcome in that state. The hospital name is the name provided in the Hospital.Name variable. The outcomes can be one of “heart attack”, “heart failure”, or “pneumonia”. 

#### Ranking hospitals by outcome in a state
rankhospital(state, outcome, rank)

Function called rankhospital takes three arguments: the 2-character abbreviated name of a state (state), an outcome (outcome), and the ranking of a hospital in that state for that outcome (num). The function reads the outcome-of-care-measures.csv file and returns a character vector with the name of the hospital that has the ranking specified by the num argument. For example, the call rankhospital("MD", "heart failure", 5) would return a character vector containing the name of the hospital with the 5th lowest 30-day death rate for heart failure. 

#### Ranking hospitals in all states
rankall(outcome, rank) 

Function called rankall takes two arguments: an outcome name (outcome) and a hospital rank- ing (num). The function reads the outcome-of-care-measures.csv file and returns a 2-column data frame containing the hospital in each state that has the ranking specified in num. For example the function call rankall("heart attack", "best") would return a data frame containing the names of the hospitals that are the best in their respective states for 30-day heart attack death rates.

Commit message:

refactoring, common.r creation which contains common functions between the main functions

README.md, after:

# USHospitalCompare
Hospital analysis and comparison from U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

### Introduction
This project is a set of functions in R with the objective of performing analysis and comparisons between hospitals in the United States.

### Data  

The data come from the Hospital Compare web site (http://hospitalcompare.hhs.gov) run by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The purpose of the web site is to provide data and information about the quality of care at over 4,000 Medicare-certified hospitals in the U.S. This dataset es- sentially covers all major U.S. hospitals. This dataset is used for a variety of purposes, including determining whether hospitals should be fined for not providing high quality care to patients.

### Files 
- outcome-of-care-measures.csv: Contains information about 30-day mortality and readmission rates for heart attacks, heart failure, and pneumonia for over 4,000 hospitals.
- hospital-data.csv: Contains information about each hospital.
- Hospital_Revised_Flatfiles.pdf: Descriptions of the variables in each file (i.e the code book).
- best.R: Contains the function best(state, outcome)
- rankhospital.R: Contains the function rankhospital(state, outcome, rank)
- rankall.R: Contains the function rankall(outcome, rank)
- common.R: Contains common functions among the main functions of the project

### Functions

#### Finding the best hospital in a state
best(state, outcome)

Function called best take two arguments: the 2-character abbreviated name of a state and an outcome name. The function reads the outcome-of-care-measures.csv file and returns a character vector with the name of the hospital that has the best (i.e. lowest) 30-day mortality for the specified outcome in that state. The hospital name is the name provided in the Hospital.Name variable. The outcomes can be one of “heart attack”, “heart failure”, or “pneumonia”. 

#### Ranking hospitals by outcome in a state
rankhospital(state, outcome, rank)

Function called rankhospital takes three arguments: the 2-character abbreviated name of a state (state), an outcome (outcome), and the ranking of a hospital in that state for that outcome (num). The function reads the outcome-of-care-measures.csv file and returns a character vector with the name of the hospital that has the ranking specified by the num argument. For example, the call rankhospital("MD", "heart failure", 5) would return a character vector containing the name of the hospital with the 5th lowest 30-day death rate for heart failure. 

#### Ranking hospitals in all states
rankall(outcome, rank) 

Function called rankall takes two arguments: an outcome name (outcome) and a hospital rank- ing (num). The function reads the outcome-of-care-measures.csv file and returns a 2-column data frame containing the hospital in each state that has the ranking specified in num. For example the function call rankall("heart attack", "best") would return a data frame containing the names of the hospitals that are the best in their respective states for 30-day heart attack death rates.
